Add reviewing guidelines (#23571)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/framework/reviewing.md

# Code Review

## Review Guidelines

> 

Reviewer: let s categorize this more
& have some more basic guidelines

> - Contributors should be regarded as innocent until proven guilty
>   - Contributors probably aren't out to destroy MOOSE
>   - The contributor has probably thought about their contribution a lot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this was informal discussion

- Reviews should be thoughtful
- Reviews should be thorough; we don't want bugs! But
  - Don't let perfect be the enemy of the good
  - We'd like development to be agile
  - Merged code will have eyes of tens of MOOSE contributors; runs of hundreds
    to thousands of users
  - Unmerged code will have eyes of much fewer contributors and runs of much
    fewer users
    - No code, no bug reports! But also no features
  - People will be hesitant to contribute if the review process is onerous
- Are there things we can do to abate fear of bugs?
  - Request more tests
- As a reviewer, try to make it clear to the author what conversations are

>   required changes vs. suggestions (perhaps GitHub Requested Change vs Comment?)

Reviewer: the gh api dont work here. There s no way to distinguish if you re doing both

- NQA-1 explicitly allows for a change-control board member to push commits to a
  pull request and maintain independent reviewer status as long as the pushed
  commits are not "significant."

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reviews should be prompt. We should strive to provide a first quick review within XX business days
```

> ## Addressing Deadlock Between a CCB Author and CCB Reviewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New features should come under more scrutiny than re-factoring, which benefits from the confidence offered by the existing test suite

## Addressing Deadlock Between a CCB Author and CCB Reviewer
```

> 

Reviewer: maybe this should be a subsection and not its own big category. This doesnt happen often, and would happen even less with a tad more politeness

# Reviewing Pull Requests

MOOSE is a large project with large numbers of users and contributors.

> While MOOSE seeks the highest standards of software quality, it
> is important to recognize that requiring perfection in proposed
> code changes is not realistic, given the large amount of activity,
> versus the limited availability of reviewers and time.
> The guidelines outlined on this page are designed to guide
> reviewers in finding the right balance between efficiency
> and software quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reviewers are bound by strict software quality standards, which they
enforce through careful reviews, often at the expense of their own research.
The guidelines outlined on this page are designed to help reviewers
provide an environment welcoming of external contributions and deal with
common situations. 
```

## Conduct

> - Be respectful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be respectful. Feel free to close the pull request if the contributor is not.
```

- Try to be helpful. The reviewer is not expected to implement changes
  for the author, but the reviewer should try to ensure that
  the author has some direction, particularly if the author is a new
  or infrequent contributor.

> - Make it clear what are changes that you require, versus suggestions.
>   For example, use "I suggest" for suggestions and imperative language,
>   e.g., "Do this", for required changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make it clear what are large changes that you require, versus suggestions.
  For example, use "I suggest" for suggestions and imperative language,
  e.g., "Do this", for required changes.
  Anything minor (typos, grammar, docstrings) is assumed to be required. If you
  do not wish for something to be fixed, do not suggest the change.
```

- If it would be helpful, provide the author with a link to the contributing
  guidelines page.

> - It is acceptable to make commits to the contributor's feature branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Feel free to ask questions. It's normal to not understand everything in the pull request when you have
not written that code. Many times, the response to these questions should actually be added as comments
in the code.
- It is acceptable to make commits to the contributor's feature branch.
```

  Note that NQA-1 explicitly allows this, and an additional, independent
  review is only required if the additional commit(s) are significant.
- If the author refuses the requested changes, request an additional
  reviewer (ideally a `CODEOWNER` for the affected lines) to make a

>   final decision on the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  final decision on the changes.
  - Be timely. Pull requests should only linger when there's good reasons for them not to move forward.
    If you cannot review, consider delegating the review to another member.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be a team player. If there is a section of the code that you are not familiar with,
  feel free to ask for another reviewer's opinion.

```

Reviewer: maybe this isnt the most team player advice in the end. Maybe we should find something to say we should act as a team on this though. It's important.

## Review Strategy

- Review the high-level design of the changes before reviewing finer
  details.
- Consider the scope of the changes when determining how thorough
  the review should be: changes that potentially affect a large
  number of users should be subjected to greater scrutiny. Also
  consider the likelihood of additional capability being built
  on top of these changes.

> - Carefully consider the user interface, such as input parameters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the proposed changes do not allow for additional capability, this can be a reason
  to refuse them.
- Carefully consider the user interface, such as input parameters,
```

  particularly for potentially high profile changes.

> - Prioritize discovery of bugs that would manifest in very subtle,
>   difficult-to-discover ways, rather than those bugs that
>   would immediately become apparent, such as by an immediate error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consider how the code will be understood outside of the context of a pull request. 
Are the comments and documentation enough to understand what is going on without
asking the initial developers.
```

## Testing

> - The reviewer is not expected to test out the proposed
>   changes, but this may be recommended in some cases when the
>   regression testing is deemed insufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
checking out the code locally and stress-testing it is straight up the best way to find issues. I dont think we should point the reviewer to not doing it

Reviewer: "when the
  regression testing is deemed insufficient." this is true but very hard to detect!
It s easy to get coverage while completely missing the feature even, so catching edge cases is real hard

> - At the very least, testing should cover most of the new code lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At the very least, testing should cover all the features contributed, and most of the relevant code lines.
```

  Note that code coverage is automatically checked to meet a minimum
  value, but the reviewer may decide to override this failure if
  deemed justified. For example, a change may involve some branches
  in conditionals that should be impossible to hit.

> - The reviewer may request additional testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The reviewer may request additional testing.
- The reviewer may enable additional testing recipes. Anything with manual memory management
  could benefit from a valgrind recipe. Anything with loose tolerances is likely to fail parallel testing,
  feel free to add those recipes. 
```

## Documentation

- Inline code documentation such as doxygen is not required but may be requested

>   when code is unclear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when code is unclear. When unclear whether it's unclear, ask for more documentation.
```

- Request documentation for new classes and systems and also for
  modifications to existing documentation where it is deemed important.
- Thorough documentation is not required, but it should be accurate
  and error-free, and it should clarify anything unusual or unclear.

> - If the changes are significant enough to communicate to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When capabilities in the code change, it's likely user documentation will need to be adapted. Always check out
  the current state of the user documentation to make sure it does not become inaccurate.
- If the changes are significant enough to communicate to the
```

# Reviewing Pull Requests

MOOSE is a large project with large numbers of users and contributors.
Reviewers are bound by strict software quality standards, which they
enforce through careful reviews, often at the expense of their own research.
The guidelines outlined on this page are designed to help reviewers
provide an environment welcoming of external contributions and deal with
common situations.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

!alert note
We welcome external reviews of pull requests, even from parties with a stake in the proposed changes,
however due to the software quality requirements, pull requests will always require a review from a member
of the Change Control Board.

```

  - If a pull request is complex, it is ok to ask that it is split in several pull requests. It is also ok to refuse
    "rider" commits changing code unrelated to the pull request at hand.
  - Be timely. Pull requests should only linger when there are good reasons for them not to move forward.
    If you cannot review, consider delegating the review to another member.
- If there is a section of the code that you are not familiar with,
  feel free to ask for another reviewer's opinion.

## Review Strategy

- Review the high-level design of the changes before reviewing finer
  details.
- Consider the scope of the changes when determining how thorough
  the review should be: changes that potentially affect a large
  number of users should be subjected to greater scrutiny. Also
  consider the likelihood of additional capability being built
  on top of these changes.
  If the proposed changes do not allow for additional capability, this can be a reason
  to refuse them.
- Carefully consider the user interface, such as input parameters,
  particularly for potentially high profile changes.
- Consider how the code will be understood outside of the context of a pull request. 

> Are the comments and documentation enough to understand what is going on without
> asking the initial developers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The comments and documentation should be enough to understand what is going on without
  asking the initial developers.
```

## Testing

- At the very least, testing should cover all the features contributed, and most of the relevant code lines.
  Note that code coverage is automatically checked to meet a minimum
  value, but the reviewer may decide to override this failure if
  deemed justified. For example, a change may involve some branches
  in conditionals that should be impossible to hit.
- The reviewer may request additional testing.
- The reviewer may enable additional testing recipes. Anything with manual memory management

>   could benefit from a valgrind recipe. Anything with loose tolerances is likely to fail parallel testing,
>   feel free to add those recipes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  could benefit from a valgrind recipe. Anything with loose tolerances is likely to fail parallel testing.
  Feel free to add those recipes. 
```

## Documentation

- Inline code documentation such as doxygen is not required but may be requested

>   when code is unclear. When unclear whether it's unclear, ask for more documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  when code is unclear. When in doubt, ask for more documentation.
```

- Request documentation for new classes and systems and also for
  modifications to existing documentation where it is deemed important.
- Thorough documentation is not required, but it should be accurate
  and error-free, and it should clarify anything unusual or unclear.

> - When capabilities in the code change, it's likely user documentation will need to be adapted. Always check out
>   the current state of the user documentation to make sure it does not become inaccurate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure that existing documentation remains accurate with code changes.
```

# Reviewing Pull Requests

MOOSE is a large project with large numbers of users and contributors.
Reviewers are bound by strict software quality standards, which they
enforce through careful reviews, often at the expense of their own research.
The guidelines outlined on this page are designed to help reviewers
provide an environment welcoming of external contributions and deal with
common situations.

!alert note title=External reviews welcome
Software quality assurance requires that pull requests be reviewed by at least one member of the Change Control Board (CCB). However, anyone, including those external to the CCB, may add their own reviews.

## Conduct

> - Be respectful. Feel free to close the pull request if the contributor is not.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The MOOSE project strives to create a respectful environment for all contributors, reviewers, and users. Therefore, please be respectful during the pull request submission and approval process. Pull requests can be closed if interactions do not meet this standard. 
```

- Try to be helpful. The reviewer is not expected to implement changes
  for the author, but the reviewer should try to ensure that
  the author has some direction, particularly if the author is a new
  or infrequent contributor.

> - Make it clear what are large changes that you require, versus suggestions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Make it clear the large changes that are required by the reviewer, versus suggestions.
```

Reviewer: Clearly state required large changes ?

  For example, use "I suggest" for suggestions and imperative language,
  e.g., "Do this", for required changes.

>   Anything minor (typos, grammar, docstrings) is assumed to be required. If you
>   do not wish for something to be fixed, do not suggest the change.

Author: ```suggestion
  Anything minor (typos, grammar, docstrings) is assumed to be required. If you
  do not wish for something to be changed, do not suggest the change.
```

# Reviewing Pull Requests

MOOSE is a large project with large numbers of users and contributors.
Reviewers are bound by strict software quality standards, which they
enforce through careful reviews, often at the expense of their own research.
The guidelines outlined on this page are designed to help reviewers
provide an environment welcoming of external contributions and deal with
common situations.

!alert note
We welcome external reviews of pull requests, even from parties with a stake in the proposed changes,
however due to the software quality requirements, pull requests will always require a review from a member

> of the Change Control Board.

Reviewer: the "reviewer may contribute to the PR" thing is also below

also contributon to PRs are easy for maintainers, but for non-maintainers it s a process right?
either gh suggestions or make a PR to the PR on the origin fork

> of the Change Control Board.

Reviewer 2: Ok, changed the suggestion. How's that?
